we don't teach leaders how to have
uncomfortable conversations we don't
teach students how to have uncomfortable
conversations you tell me which is going
to be more valuable for the rest of your
life how to have a difficult
conversation or trigonometry described
as a Visionary thinker with a rare
intellect multiple time best-selling
author S cynic every single one of us
knows what we do some of us know how we
do it but very very few of us can
clearly articulate why we do what we do
and I think one of the reasons most of
us don't know who we are is because
we're making decisions that are
inconsistent with that true cause with
that why there's a great irony in it in
all of this I had what a lot of people
would be considered a good life and yet
didn't want to wake up and go to work
anymore why
I we cannot do this thing called Career
or life alone we're just not that smart
we're not that strong we're just not
that good for anyone who wants to be a
better version of themselves purpose
comes
from it's one of the best podcasts I've
ever done so without further Ado I'm
Steven Bartlett and this is the dire of
a CEO USA Edition I hope nobody's
listening but if you are then please
keep this to
[Music]
yourself
Simon my introduction to you was this
book start with why and it hung on the
walls of some of my offices around the
world for a long time and then my
employees would come in after reading
the book and evangelize about it and it
would come up in meetings and in
discussions and in Creative brainstorms
Etc over and over and over again the
question I wanted to ask you was was
there a point in your life where you'd
felt like you drifted so far from your
why that you realized the importance of
it for the first time well the simple
answer is yes um it was that drifting
that set me on the path to find it in
the first place to to to even articulate
that idea
I had what a lot of people would be
considered sort of a good life as living
the proverbial American Dream you know I
quit my job to start my own business the
business was doing okay made an okay
living had great clients did good work
and yet I'd lost my passion for that and
didn't want to wake up and go to go to
work anymore which was embarrassing
because superficially everything was
just fine I was pretending that that I
was happier more in control and more
successful than I was or felt um which
is quite frankly pretty draining and
pretty dark and it wasn't until a very
very close friend of mine came to me and
said something's wrong she was the first
one to notice something and I came clean
and I sort of let it all out and uh it
was that catharsis that sort of lifted
this heavy weight off my shoulders I was
no longer alone it was no longer a
secret um and all of the energy that was
previously going into lying hiding and
faking now went into finding a
solution there was a complt of events
it's not you know all of these histories
are perfectly neat and clean and that's
not really how it is or was but to
compress it and make and oversimplify it
I made this discovery based on the
biology of human decision-making that
every single one of us knows what we do
some of us know how we do it but very
very few of us can clearly articulate
why we do what we do and I realized that
was what I was missing so to answer your
your question yes 100% the realization
of the why was my loss of it and I
realized I knew what I did and I was
good at it and I knew how I was
different or special or stood out from
the crowd and that was my
differentiating value proposition and I
was articulate about it but I couldn't
tell you why I was waking at a bed every
day to do it you know and I would give
some nonsense entrepreneur answer
because I want to be my own boss and
like yeah sure but that's not a reason
to get out of bed every day this got me
thinking a lot about the guests that I
have sit here and also my own story
where
sometimes I think people's why or the
thing that's been driving them is in
fact some kind of trauma or
insecurity I think because you sit here
with people in their whe whe whether
it's Israel adna the UFC champion who's
the current maybe world's best UFC
fighter he was battered and bullied as a
kid being the only black kid in his
school in New Zealand and so it's no
coincidence that he strived to be this
fighter and in fact when he won the UFC
title the next day day he was he was
depressed and he went to therapy that's
made me question whether like our wise
can sometimes be trauma or insecurity
driven as opposed to being intentional
and I don't know so a why is fully
formed by the time we're in our mid to
late teens the youngest person I've done
a y Discovery for was 16 and it worked
the process
worked um and what I've learned from
just doing hundreds of over the years is
that a why is always positive it's
always striving for something so like
we're not inspired against something
we're not inspired to stop something
we're inspired to build something or
create something or Advance
something um though it may have been
born out of
trauma there's usually a silver lining
that gives us that cause especially
trauma that happens in the middle of our
Lives you know September 11th is often
looked to as you know people found
purpose you know We Are Who We Are like
I said we're fully formed by the
experiences we have when we're young you
know at a pretty young age and now the
opportunity life presents us is to make
decisions that either Keeps Us in
balance with who we really are or not
and I think one of the reasons most of
us feel discomfort or don't feel
ourselves or don't know who we are is
because we're making decisions that are
inconsistent with that true cause with
that why so you raise the case of um
individual athletes who become Champions
and then suffer depression
fairly common story you hear this from
Olympians you know Michael Phelps
becomes the most medled you know uh
Olympian of all time immediately suffers
depression Andre Agassi becomes the most
storied you know tennis player of all
time immediately becomes depressed and
what I've learned from talking to some
of these um these particularly athletes
but I think it happens in the business
world as well which is from a very young
age
they set themselves a goal that in my
words would be a very selfish goal I
want to be the best at X the best tennis
player the best golfer the best whatever
and you know the way Olympians put it
which I get a kick out of is I want to
win the Olympics like well no one wins
the Olympics like you can be a winner in
your sport you know but that's an aside
but and and their entire lives from
pretty young ages every decision they're
making is to help them Advance this fin
goal and all of their relationships are
can you help me achieve my goal right
and if you can no longer help me achieve
my goal I don't need you anymore as a
coach or even a
friend and those huge sacrifices missing
of birthdays missing of Christmases you
know missing of major life uh events
because I have to practice so I can
achieve my goal and when they get into
interviewed on the news you know or at
the Olympics or whatever you know why do
you do it and they will say well I'm
doing it to inspire the little kids
which is complete [__] you know if
you look at all of their uh vision
boards from when they were younger of
pictures of podiums and medals and money
and Lamborghinis not a single little
child on there of the people you're
doing it for it's it's just a Lucky
Strike extra I mean absolutely you do
Inspire children but that's not the
reason you did it you just got that you
know like I said it's sort of it's a
twofer and
and then when they achieve or don't
achieve this thing and then can no
longer compete for it um they've set
their entire path in order their
relationships on this one these finite
selfish goals and so when it's complete
they realize they don't really have a
lot of friends around them they don't
really have a lot of close relationships
they don't really even have a sense of
purpose because they've been spent the
past 20 years or so with one purpose
which was this finite goal which now has
run out and so the very purpose lesss
and I see this in Broadway performance
forers who set their whole life to be on
the west end or be on Broadway you know
every class every tap dancing class
every singing class they make it they
get there and
then depression or at least Mala or
senior executive same thing if I just or
if I just make a million dollars you
know if I just become a millionaire then
I'll
feel and uh and the problem with all of
those things is as I said before they
are selfish uh it is your goal for your
your reasons which um is not fulfilling
for any Social Animal for any human
being you know our sense of joy and
fulfillment and love and purpose comes
from our ability to serve another human
being have a child tell me how your life
changes fall in love tell me how your
life changes you know think about all
the stupid things irrational things
we've done for love we get on planes and
travel around the RO just to say I love
you you know we do ridiculous things and
it all feels worth it and the sacrifices
we make for a child all feel worth it
but these are no longer for us and these
things will live on beyond our own lives
they are not finite they are infinite
and there's nothing wrong with Personal
Achievement there's nothing wrong with
setting goals but it has to be in the
context of something even bigger in
general team sports don't suffer this
because you had to do it together you
know it's usually individual athletes
who suffer this more often uh and so
there there is a there's one of the the
athletes I would point to is a guy by
the name of Curtis Martin Curtis is a
Hall of Fame NFL footballer um and he
only started playing football basically
to stay out of trouble he did it as a
favor to his mom just so he wouldn't get
into he grew up in a really bad
neighborhood in Philadelphia and
basically kept him out of trouble it
turns out he was really good at it and
when he realized he was good at it he
realized that by being good at something
it will give him the power to actually
give back later and he he made this
realization especially when he went to
college on scholarship and then made it
to the NFL he realized the better he was
at the sport it wasn't about propelling
his own career it was about when he
leaves this career he has a platform
that would be bigger than the platform
he has now and so he was driven and
driven and driven not so that he could
be the best not so that he could make
the most money in fact he made a lot
less money than a lot of other players
of his rank not that he could uh be rich
or or any of these things he did it so
that he could build his platform so he
could give back later so when he retired
from the
NFL he wasn't lost he wasn't searching
he he knew exactly what the next step
was because being in being an elite
athlete to the highest level possible
was only step
one um and to see one's life as a
Continuum rather than than a than an
event um is much healthier on that point
of seeing one's life as a Continuum by
the way you completely we call it atting
someone you described their situation
but you completely added me you
completely described my situation in
terms of the place of mind I was in at
25 when I had that offer to BU my
company it was about me it was about
filling some void that I had in me from
being like the only black kid in an allh
school and thinking that I think success
and accolades would fill that void in
some ways but on that point of a
Continuum as a as a way to live your
life the other moment in my life where I
which I really struggled in in terms of
goal setting and motivation was when I
was trying to get in shape and in like
2017 I said to myself I want to get a
sixpack for summer that's the goal I set
myself really what I was trying to find
a way to stay fit forever but I set
myself this goal of getting a sixpack in
summer that was my thing and then every
single year my motivation would only
last for like four or five months and I
couldn't crack how people are
continually motivated to work out I've
cracked it now but what was wrong about
that cuz I've heard you speak about
arbitrary goals before what is the the
flaw of creating arbitrary goals in our
lives and how do we create goals that
are more based on that idea of a
Continuum you know I I I'm not a huge
fan of the the term
self-improvement right um but I do like
the idea of awareness
self-awareness you know we all live with
blind spots we all live with missing
gaps and pieces of information which
will by the way last for the rest of our
lives and there are some people choose
to live a life where living with those
gaps is acceptable and they never fill
them in and we would say that they
remain stagnant and arguably either
mentally or physically unhealthy or G
gaining you know getting unhealthier as
they get older you know for someone for
anyone who who wants to be a better
version of themselves a more aware
version of themselves you you we I seek
out
information and that comes in all kinds
of forms right it can be in a
relationship um so for example I went
and took a listening class actually I
should pref preface with um I was dating
someone and she accused me of being a
bad listener and I was like you do know
what I do for a living right like I'm a
really good listener so I don't know
what you're talking about you know and
then I took this listening class turns
out I'm an
absolutely brilliant listener
with people who I'll never see again for
the rest of my life but amongst my
friends and family appalling appalling
so I had this basic skill set that I
never
applied with the people closest to me
and gave myself an out because quote
unquote I knew how to
listen um and so I realized I was a
terrible listener this was a blind spot
this was a gap and having somebody love
me tell me that didn't work didn't
believe them until you know this
objective Outsider or at least just took
this class and came to this realization
that was brilliant that awareness of the
blind spot and the awareness of the
skills that I need to be a better
brother son boyfriend friend you know I
had to learn how to hold space for
someone and then
practice um that's
awareness and I think our health is
awareness
unfortunately some people wait for the
breakup to learn that they're bad
listeners some people wait for the heart
attack to realize they're eating poorly
you know that's awareness you get
awareness by getting a punch in the face
and I think I think it's a
responsibility for every human being
should they want to have value in the
lives of
others to seek awareness in how they
show up in the world and and how the
world impacts them their mental health
their physical health their ability to
maintain relationships and nurse
relationships and you hear me what I
mean you hear me say this over again
it's a sort of it's a repeating pattern
which is for those who want to show up
better in the lives of others which is I
see being healthy as a service to others
I see being a better listener being a
service I see everything in terms of
service to others there are benefits to
you as well of
course but I I think we've neglected for
decades the the socialness of our of our
animal and social media and cell phones
and and the and the ubiquity of those
technologies have complicated our
ability to be human um there are others
who comment on this as well brne Brown
talks about this where we have a Young
Generation that has mistaken
vulnerability in
broadcast right where you sit in your
room by yourself put your phone on
record and make a video of yourself
crying because of the loss of a
relationship and then posting that on
Instagram or SnapChat or YouTube or Tik
Tok or whatever your media of choices
and the hashtag is just being vulnerable
right and there's nothing vulnerable
about that you by yourself broadcasting
to the world live or video It Doesn't
Matter do that exact same thing with the
person you
hurt that is way more difficult don't
leave a voice memo saying hey I'm really
sorry just taking accountability call
them or go visit them and look them in
the eye and say that exact same sentence
that you just left a voice memo for
that's vulnerability that's really hard
and requires practice and we avoid it
because it's difficult we avoid it
because it's uncomfortable we choose
broadcast not because it's better it's
because it's
easier and then mistake the two and so
the reason to learn to be vulnerable is
not for ourselves it's for US service to
others and I talk about this all the
time which we've confused these things
and once again going back to what we
were talking about before we've weirdly
taken these very pro-social activities
and made them selfish like go
us uh my my biggest P I'll give you my
biggest pet peeve and I've talked about
this one before but it drives me nuts I
was at this meet I was in this meeting
once and there was a a woman next to me
who was this big timey yoga instructor
apparently and the entire meeting was a
it was a big group of us she was on her
phone under the under the desk under the
table and I sort of sneaked over a look
and it's not like she was like there was
a family member in hospital and she
wanted to just you know stay in touch
she was on social media I could see
right and at one point the conversation
at the table turned to being present and
she popped up her head and said that's
why I love yoga because it helps me be
present of which I'm thinking you're an
idiot you know and I started to realize
we've confused things here which is we
don't get to decide when we're present
we get to practice
being present but you actually are not
present until someone else says you are
you know you don't get to sit with a
friend and be like I feel present if
they don't feel it that's like me saying
I'm a great listener except I'm not
right I don't get to self assign these
accolades especially when they're social
they can only be assigned by another and
so for anyone who's ever practiced
meditation there are absolutely benefits
to us without a doubt and it is those
are important mental and physical health
benefits of meditation and mindfulness
and we should practice those for sure
but there's also that what I think is
the primary reason some would consider
secondary reason which is if you
practice meditation for example you
learn to focus on one thing your Mantra
a sound whatever it is you learn to your
breath you learn to it's you don't
nobody you don't think of nothing you
think of one thing you focus on one
thing right and if something interrupts
that thing you have a thought did I
leave the washing machine on you
know you label it a thought and you push
it out of your head and you say I'll
deal with it later and that's the whole
the whole idea is total focus and the
ability to put your thoughts out of your
head to stay focused on this one thing
now think about when you're sitting
listening with a friend who's going
through a hard time are you listening
are you waiting for your turn to speak
right the whole meditation practice that
you've been doing is now valuable in
this moment where you are focused
entirely on what they're saying to you
every distraction every Screech of a car
outside everybody who's talking around
you you don't hear any of it you only
hear what they're saying to you are
entirely focused on what they're saying
to you and when you have your own
thoughts of advice you'd like to give or
things you want to tell them oh my God
me too that happened to me as well right
you say NOP that's not important in this
moment and you put it out of your head
and deal with it later and at the end of
that conversation your friend will say
thank you I feel heard or thank you for
being there for me or thank you for
holding space for me or thank you for
listening and those are all uh uh
indications that congratulations you've
been present for another and I think
what gives our lives purpose is not to
wake up every morning to learn
meditation so that we can be present for
ourselves though that is valuable what
gives our lives purpose is to do these
things for
another there's nothing wrong with doing
things and enjoying the benefit of those
things Yourself by all means but the
sense of the deep feeling sense of
purpose and meaning to one's life or to
one's work only comes when those things
are for another and in my view primarily
for another where our benefit is
secondary you can't have equal there's
no such thing as equal because at one
point one of those things will have to
be sacrificed for the other and do you
sacrifice your spouse's love so that you
can stay in love or do you sacrifice
your comfort do you sacrifice as your
your girlfriend boyfriend spouse's
comfort so that you can be better or do
you sacrifice your comfort so they can
feel better that's an obvious it's
obvious well it's the same here it's the
same analogy which is I choose to
sacrifice my my happiness my joy my
comfort my Lamborghini in this moment
not forever but in this moment for you
for you my employee for you my friend
you know um I will delay so that you can
have and that's where the joy and love
of business relationships friendships
come from you know there's a great irony
in it in all of this which is to
sacrifice for another really is the most
beautiful thing we can ever do I mean
that's kind of what love is it's
sacrificing for
another um and all of these things
whether
it's learning to be a better
Communicator learning mindfulness and
meditation being in shape if you can
translate those things in for another
all of those things start to have a
higher purpose in the case of Health
doing it for another you're saying that
it would be so that I can be here longer
for my family would be a much more
joyful if I had children for example
sure as long as it's real m it can't be
generic right it can't you just can't
you can't just put it out there just so
it's fills the you know Mad Libs and you
fill the Gap yeah yeah you know it's got
to you got to actually feel it that that
actually is the purpose I'll give you
one then so part I do think about this
and I thought about this last night when
I was in the gym was in part I think I
work out because I want to be healthy
and in shape for my for my girlfriend
like I want to be I want our
relationship to be good I want us to be
able to be active together I want her to
be attracted by me when I'm naked you
know like and I had a debate with my
team as to like whether that's a noble
reason to work out and should we have a
feel an obligation or whatever to be in
shape for our our other half I think to
be healthy for our other half for sure
but you think the aesthetic stuff is a
bit I think it's fine I mean I think the
aesthetic stuff is about confidence
right which is I'm sure she'll love you
even if you're chubby you know I'm sure
she'll love you even if you don't have a
six-pack you know but if it makes you
feel confident then it's like people who
have nose jobs you know like somebody
says you can't have a nose job why are
you well if it makes them feel better
about themselves then how can we argue
with it like if they if they went from
being really really insecure and hiding
their faces or bad teeth and they never
wanted to smile to fixing their teeth
and now they smile all the time like why
why should we tell them they count now
of course there's a line getting
addicted to plastic surgery is something
different and there is a line but you
know getting your teeth done or getting
a nose job to make yourself feel better
is it's fine if it builds your confence
so if it builds your confidence and
then and it's a and you're doing it in a
healthy way you know then you know it's
like how can somebody argue that you
shouldn't be exercising so it looks now
again there is a line there are some
people who actually overdo it where if
they stop exercising they gain a tiny
bit of weight they actually spiral there
is a line where they're actually not
building confidence they're actually
building insecurity but some of these
things don't have to be big and lty they
can be ridiculously small like so for
example for me you know I
very good at um disappointing myself
like I have no problem disappointing
myself right like I'll wake up in the
morning two hours before my alarm and
I'll say to myself you should work out
like you're up super early you've got a
busy day and you just got an extra two
hours you could like use 30 minutes of
that to work out get out of bed I'm like
n I'll sit in bed for two hours and just
like read the newspaper and play Wordle
you know and two hours will go by and I
won't work out do I have any guilt none
I'm just like H you're an idiot Simon
right now if I'm meeting someone at the
gym at 7:30 because we're going to work
out I'll be there I won't let somebody
down I'm okay letting myself down but I
won't let somebody else down so for me
my purpose sometimes is very in the
moment like I'm doing this for them it's
like you know when I when I would run
you know one of the reasons I stayed in
good running shape is because when I ran
with my running buddy I never wanted to
ruin their run if they wanted to keep a
slightly higher Pace I could keep but so
it doesn't always have to be big and
lofty sometimes it can be in the moment
when you talked about awareness there
and the importance of trying to become
more aware about ourselves and one of
the things that made you aware was that
conversation with your partner yeah
where they said you don't listen you're
a shitty listener yeah um self-awareness
what I don't know if that's a real thing
but self-awareness um seems to be the
foundation of grow personal growth right
so becoming aware about something in our
lives and people can read as I always
say people can read as many books as
they like but if they're unable to read
themselves will never really learn a
thing for me and I I I wrote that a
couple of years ago and I had a guy in
my office who read every single he was
actually one of the people that always
came in with your books right he read
every single book I've ever seen he knew
every book but he never changed yeah and
and he and there was things within him
that he wasn't self-aware about that I
believe were the reason why he couldn't
evolve even though he was taking in so
much information how does w go about
what are the the the key ways we can go
about increasing our sense of
self-awareness so that we can grow and
evolve
such a good question you know it's kind
of like people like that are a little
bit like yo-yo dieters you know they
they do every diet but they're not
healthy people I read every book but I'm
not growing and you can't assess
yourself you know it's like can you I
mean you know this from work right which
is at some point somebody's going to
have to give you feedback at some point
you have to give somebody else feedback
like self assessment is a thing but it's
not the only thing it's a thing it's a
data point and I'm a huge believer in
self assessment but you have to have
that butress with the assessments of
others because we are blind very often
we're social animals we cannot do this
thing called Career or life alone we're
just not that smart we're not that
strong we're not that aware we're just
not that good as social animals we
actually need each other to watch our
backs and tell us what's working and
what's not working and I think for
somebody who goes through life and reads
those books all the books you know I
guess good on them I guess but are they
asking for help are they asking for uh
Insight from others as opposed to just
reading it and agreeing with it and
thinking they're making the changes I
know my own personal journey and I try I
do think of myself as I I I work hard to
be self-aware and I work hard to
self-evaluate but I I have seen in my
own life my ability to truly demonstrate
real
awareness um and move further down the
the journey and path called life as
opposed to staying stagnant came when I
let others help me you know we we don't
build trust by offering help we build
trust by asking for it because it's a
vulnerable thing to ask for help will
you help me is a very very vulnerable
statement can I help you not so much an
act of service but the act of service
really comes from allowing somebody else
to serve
you which it becomes this whole weird
Twisted circular thing
you know it's like I I mean I'll give
you a silly
example people who are bad at taking
compliments
right you're so smart no no no no no no
right we downplay it because we're
embarrassed by the compliment right but
a compliment is a gift somebody's paying
you a gift now if somebody handed you a
present you wouldn't push it back
because it would be rude right you would
accept it and whether you like it or not
or whether it makes you comfortable or
not you accept it with gratit ude and
then you go evaluate it later oh that's
an ugly sweater you know but you're
still grateful for the thought and the
gift and the compliment is the same and
I think all of these things the
willingness to you know to deny someone
else the joy of giving you the gift of
the compliment and to deny someone else
the intensity and joy of being there for
someone else again I think is selfish
never asking for help is selfish asking
for help is a great Act of service
because you allow someone else to have
the joy of sacrifice and it goes
backwards and forwards it's not
one-sided and this is where I think
great relationships work which is we
take turns
and sometimes it's really difficult when
both of us are in need at the same time
that gets really difficult good thing we
have friends so you know the height of
Co um I have a couple of my friends
they're sort of remarkable High
performing individuals both of them and
one of them called me out of the
blue she went for for a long walk she
says I'm doing really
badly and I need to talk to you and I
don't want to talk to my husband because
he's doing really badly as well and I
fear that if I talk to him he doesn't
have the energy for me but I know he'll
want to be there for me which will make
it worse for him we're both really
struggling can do you have some time to
talk you know and I mean a the
willingness to ask for help B the
willingness to
understand that asking her husband for
help would made it even more difficult
for him it was just a very sophisticated
and beautiful moment and to this day we
became and not only did we become closer
for it but her husband and I became
closer for it as well because I was
there for her when he knew he couldn't
be and this is why we have friends like
again we can't do this alone not only
are we social animals we're tribal
animals you know it's more than a friend
it takes a community um and I think one
of the you know we're always talking
about what eating and we're talking
about what we're you know what you know
what supplement we're taking or we're
always talking about those kinds of
things or what book we're reading but we
we don't do enough talking about how we
are
nursing our close personal relationships
how we were taking care of those closest
to us and making sure that the tribe is
strong um the crew is taken care of you
know um and I think there's a lot more
work that we can do in that arena is
there practical things that you do with
colleagues Partners friends to create
that culture of seeking feedback being
open being truly vulnerable you know
some people say oh we'll have we'll sit
down with our diary and we'll write
we'll do this exercise or you might have
seen in organizations where they do like
360 feedback things is there is there
practical things we can do to create a
culture of seeking out that feedback and
creating a safe space well the simple
answer is of course um the there's no
such thing as a single Silver Bullet
It's a combination of things it's like
what's the one thing I can do to happy
have a happy relationship well I I can't
I can tell you a important thing but I
can't tell you the important thing so
it's the same um and everybody's a
little different you know and each
culture is a little different so there's
there's not even a set list I can get
but there's some things that people can
choose from you know one thing is one of
the ways we create space is how we react
right if someone gives you feedback and
you deny it well that's a problem if
somebody gives you hard feedback and you
thank them for it it's a very different
environment it creates so I I I'll give
you two uh examples one a lesson the
other one a practical example that
someone can use so I had the opportunity
to visit the Army Rangers uh Ranger
school in particular and I where they
make they they make army rangers and one
of
the troubles they had a bunch of years
ago was they had these folks that they
called Spotlight Rangers which was they
were really good at their job like they
were brilliant at all the tasks that
were set to them
strong their the teachers the
instructors loved them they stood out
they were great they were motivated but
as soon as the spotlight was turned off
when the instructor wasn't there and
they were back at Barracks they were
[__] and the only person who the
only people who knew were their were
their friends and colleagues because the
spotlight was turned off and so the Army
Rangers implemented a system of peer
review in order to identify Spotlight
Rangers
and in now by the way they started this
40 years ago which I find incredibly
Advanced um but to advance through
Ranger school you need to pass three
tests you need your instructor to say
yep you're ready to go to the next level
you need to physically actually perform
all the tasks required of you and you
need to pass your peer review um and if
you fail any one of those three you
don't make it to the next level
interesting and so that becomes an
equally weighted component of
advancement in the Army Rangers which is
what kind of team player are you which I
love
so we implemented a system of 360
review um which was sort of a bit of an
amalgamation of things we' taken from
other groups and made our own where what
we what the way it works is um you take
the group of people you have regular
interaction with and you
um fill out uh your top three
weaknesses or the places you believe you
need to grow the
most with a specific example for each so
top three specific weaknesses or or
places you need to grow the most and
then top three specific strengths or the
places you believe three examples of the
places you believe you've grown the most
they have to be specific not like Oh I'm
a much better timekeeper now no that you
got to give some specific examples
they're collated and distributed amongst
the team and then you come together as a
group and you take turns reading them so
first you read your own
weaknesses and then the group has the
opportunity to add to that list and
here's the best part we give a little
speech before the whole exercise starts
that the people who are going to give
you this feedback really don't want to
it's really uncomfortable for them it's
going to be uh they they would just
rather not do this exercise at all
but they're going to do it because they
want to see you and help you grow and so
what they're giving you is a gift and so
you have to receive it as a gift which
means you say thank you you don't have
to agree with it if you don't agree with
it say thank you then just dismiss it
it's fine but if it has an emotional
impact if it makes you angry or
frustrated it's probably
true right and we go around the room and
somebody tell they every people can add
to this list of these weaknesses in any
way that there's no format they can do
it in any way they want and you sit
there and you look them in the eye and
you genuinely say thank you you're not
allowed to say a word except thank
you then you do your strengths and you
read your strengths and anyone can add
to the list and just as you discovered
you have blind spots you didn't know you
have you discover that you have
strengths that you didn't know you had
that you're having a positive impact in
the lives of others that you didn't know
you were and it's a magical experience
there usually tears at some point
because it's powerful and it's a safe
environment I wouldn't recommend an
organiz start there I would recommend
you build towards that because you're
going to put very senior people and very
Junior people in the same room and
they're going to have very blunt
conversations with each other and it's
it's real right it's not a place to
start but it is a place to get to I mean
there are variations for it that one
takes a lot of time you know we've we've
vary we varied is where everybody's
responsible to do it and you can you
have two people assigned and you can
choose one or two people to join and you
just have a smaller a smaller group when
you want to do it you know and it's just
for you so the others don't do it in
that moment it's it's a little more
efficient to do it that way um but
there's no right or wrong way I really
love that idea of the promotion being
contingent on not just the your manager
or you're the CEO believing that you are
x y and Zed but getting peer reviewed by
the colleagues around you because one of
the things I noticed in my company we
had and when I left there was about 700
people but I would have I would hear
reports about a particular team member
and the reports I would get back about
their character and their conduct never
match the way they treated me M so they
would always treat me of amazingly right
of course right and then I'd hear that
they treated this person like this and
they did this and I'd go really and they
go yeah I really they they were always
so nice to me and obviously on that
basis I would have promoted that
individual and thought they were great
so that's definitely something I'll
Implement that's called a tree of
monkeys by the way it's called the a
tree of monkeys which is um all the
people at the top looking down see only
smiles but all the people at the bottom
looking up see only
a oh [__] yeah that's makes
I never never had and again you there's
you don't have to do you don't have to I
mean there's again there's different
cultures can accept different you know
there's no right or wrong here you know
and some cultures may want to implement
a peer review that gets included in in a
promotion package but it doesn't have to
be that good leadership helps there as
well which is every senior person knows
that they don't get the truth I mean
even if your people are wonderful and
fantastic people want to tell you the
right answer not because they're trying
to Li to you but they want to please you
like you you knew the more senior you
got it was harder and harder to get the
truth and every senior leader knows that
it's hard to get the truth every great
senior leader also has
spies somebody that maybe you started
you were friends with that people don't
know you're friends with or you came up
through the ranks of the organization
together but your career went a little
further a little quicker you know that
you have these trusted relationships
that you can just get a little inside
scoop as to what's really going on um
also this is the hardest one is or at
least it's a hard one learning to
replace uh judgment with
curiosity so somebody comes to you and
says that person is a problem and all of
a sudden we create a narrative based on
the story that they tell us that they
are a problem that person's stupid that
person's lazy whatever it is now they're
labeled as lazy now we treat them as
lazy now everything that they do or
don't do it's because they're lazy right
um but as a good leader we want to we
can take those reports we can take that
hearsay we can take those direct stories
that people have
and we can say thank you I appreciate
that I'll look into it I'm going to find
out more and you go on a little journey
to discover what's really happening it
absolutely may be that they're lazy that
could 100% be it or maybe they're
distracted for a reason or maybe they're
having trouble at home or maybe we've
given them a job that they're ill
qualified for or maybe they're having a
personality conflict with somebody that
they work with like the list goes on and
on and on and on and the good leader is
finding that out and by the way by I
don't mean the senior person I mean any
person in the
organization um to replace that judgment
with curiosity and I think that's what
creates those environments but the
reality is is with rank you do set the
tone so for example um no lying that
seems like a pretty simple one inside a
company we don't tell lies okay phone
rings your assistant picks up uh they
put the person on hold and they call out
to you uh David's on the phone phone and
you go tell them I'm not here you've
just sanctioned a lie you've just
sanctioned a lie right and that little
lie then now that person who was told to
lie approvingly now they can tell a lie
right because came from the boss and all
of a sudden you find out you have an
organization that tells lies all over
the place and some of those lies grow it
happened to me once where um I had a
very very senior phone call with the top
leaders of a really big
organization like and I forgot I just
didn't show up on the call I just I have
no no excuse I just I forgot to check my
calendar and I
forgot and my assistant at the time of
course wanted to protect my
reputation and she wrote to them and
said terribly sorry Simon had another
meeting that ran
long and I took her aside and it was the
hardest feedback I had to give because
she did it with such good intention I
said I am so grateful I'm so grateful
that you're protecting me and you're
protecting my
reputation and I want you to do that but
you have to do that without
lying we cannot lie you can say I'm
sorry he's late I'm sorry he missed the
call but you cannot say it's because he
was in another meeting because that's
not true and so you it's this you know I
mean I'll challenge you you try this
right let's look at the time right now
right it's it's noon okay it's noon on a
I don't even know what dat it is Monday
right you and your entire crew here's
the challenge for all of you okay you
may not tell a single lie for the next
48 hours I mean nothing and you'll be
amazed how difficult it is you'll be
amazed how many Little White Lies We
Tell like the waiter comes over and 5
minutes before you're saying oh this
food is so
salty and the waiter comes and goes how
is everything you go it's fine
everything's fine yeah thank you it's
fine that is a
lie right now you don't have to be mean
there's nothing that says truth has to
be brutal it just has to be
true try for the next 48 hours and see
how hard it is not to tell a single lie
everyone's going to be walking around
asking each other what they think of
each
other now Simon said you got to be
honest right but there's ways of doing
it right like so um do these genes make
me look
fat I like the other genes much better
they're way more flattering
right you don't have to hurt people also
timing right so a true story so I went
to see a friend's
play and
uh I I could not wait for this thing to
end it was so bad and I went out you
know to say hi to her after the
performance and she came out she was
still in costume and
makeup and she knows I'm an honest
broker she cares about what I she knows
I'll always tell her the truth in these
kinds of things and she says to me what
did you
think now now is not the time in place
she's pumped up full of
adrenaline and now is not the time for
me to give her a critical evaluation of
of this gut aul performance and so I
sidestepped the question but said
something true I said ah it was such a
treat to be here to see you do your
thing you know I've been wanting to see
you on the stage forever and it was
so much fun to see you on the stage all
of that was
true the next day when the adrenaline
had come down and I called her up and
said can I tell you what I thought about
the play she goes yeah of course and I
told her critically piece by piece what
I thought about it and how bad it was we
had a perfectly rational conversation
about it didn't hurt her feelings the
day before it would have really hurt her
feelings so not everything has to be we
mistake being honest with being honest
now now I can't lie and I have to answer
the question
but it can answer it tomorrow when the
conditions are better for that message
to be received what is so Insidious or
what is so harmful what is the long-term
negative impact of creating that culture
of lying within teams and within
ourselves well there's a there's this
there's this a psychological U um
phenomenon I guess called ethical
fading uh which can grip an
organization's culture where people
within that culture become capable of
making highly High highly unethical
decisions believing they were well
within their own ethical Frameworks
right so extreme
examples are things like pharmaceutical
companies who have a patent on an
essential drug and in order to meet or
beat some Financial projection they
raise the price of that essential drug
100% 500% 1,000%
1500% totally legal there's nothing
illegal about that really unethical
right
and in organizations that suffer ethical
fading it almost always if not always
starts from the top it's usually a
leadership problem it comes from
excessive amounts of pressure to hit
certain short-term goals to the point
where doing it ethically becomes more
and more difficult and so what creates
ethical fading is a series of things one
of those things is um we we we
rationalize right we look for ways to
distance ourselves from the impact of
our decisions we say things like it's
what you got to do to get ahead it's
what my bus wants um everyone's doing it
it's the system I don't have a choice
right um and there are ways we can
disassociate our responsibility right so
rationalizing is a big part of it
another part is the old slippery slope
you did it once you did it a little bit
it worked we raised the price 10% nobody
even noticed great do it again do do 20%
this time try 100% and it just keeps
going and going and going going before
you have full-blown ethical fading and
um some of the things are excessive use
of euphemisms again we're using language
to disassociate ourselves in the impact
of our decisions so for example you know
um we in the United States would never
torture but enhanced interrogation that
sounds very appealing right or companies
would never spy on their customers but
data mining yeah no we're really into
that right um we're just using different
language to to mask the insidiousness of
our real decisions like everybody talks
about managing externalities but we
don't talk about the damage we're doing
to the people and cultures environments
of the places where our offices and
factories are located why don't you have
that conversation and so when you have
enough of those things you ethical
fading shows up where you now have real
issues and in the extreme you have
massive scandals sometimes it leads to
illegal activity but usually it's just
unethical scandals and when those things
happen management is dragged out and
they talk to the newspaper to the law
and they always say the same thing which
is we we broke no laws everything we do
is legal no we don't have an issue with
the law we have an issue with your
ethics um but when you don't have when
it's not full-blown it just becomes an
incredibly uncomfortable and a horrible
place to work that increases stress to
the point where you'll do damage to your
own health and you'll do damage to the
way you treat your family because when
you're into that kind of stress to
violate your own ethics at work um
you're going to come home you're going
to take it out on your your spouse and
your kids you're going to kick the dog
um you're not going to be motivated to
do much except sitting on sit on the
couch and watch TV you know so it has it
has some pretty Insidious uh impact in
the lives of human beings I was thinking
of it as well in terms of romantic
relationships one little white lie
becomes another little white lie and
then a couple of you know a year passes
and you're so unaligned and so far from
your truth that you're resentful that
you're having to keep up with this set
of Lies I mean we I've talked about it
with a guest on this podcast before one
one of mistakes I made in my
relationship at the start was I would
say yes to things that I didn't like
doing yeah so I created this culture and
this also this like expectation when my
my partner thought I loved doing X
activity at 6:00 a.m. in the morning CU
I'd always said yes and I'd always
pretended to like it now I have to live
out that life of something I do not
enjoy doing because I lied at the start
and the journey back is not always so
easy when you've I I've made the same
mistake on the other side which is after
I broke up with someone when we
maintained a
friendship and I started dating somebody
or at least started dating but I didn't
want to hurt the feelings of this person
I still care about that we broke up you
know a couple months
before um and so if I would avoid the
conversation but if she said are you
dating anybody I'd say no not really and
it's not because I wanted to lie it's
because I don't want to hurt her like
the intention of course is positive but
what I learned later is all of those
little lies meant that sh she was
holding out hope that wasn't there and
by the way I'm it's been done to me as
well I'm holding out hope that's not
there because someone didn't want to
hurt my feelings and I would rather just
have the uncomfortable
conversation are you dating somebody you
are okay well that hurts but I can heal
I can move on and you know
again this Young Generation because of
all the reasons we've talked about and
more seems to exhibit the traits of
being very conflict
avoidant very uncomfortable with
uncomfortable um that has
some impact that
are sometimes funny quote unquote but
always tend to make somebody feel more
lonely so for example and I've seen this
happen I've heard about these stories so
many times a a young employee who may
feel they're in line for a raise but
it's so uncomfortable to go to their
boss and ask for a
raise that they just quit that they
would rather quit than have an
uncomfortable conversation and then
sometimes it is followed by a an angry
email that says I'm undervalued you
don't appreciate me you underpay me you
know and and I've I've heard it happen
so many times where the leadership is
like what what we would have happily
like I'm we we were either planning on
giving you a raise we'd happy to give
you a raise you know and it's really
uncomfortable to walk in your boss's
office and be like hey I'm working
really hard can I a raise please now the
time you do get to quit is when you've
had this conversation four five six
times and you've seen nothing and had no
feedback and had no impact then
absolutely you quit and absolutely you
say you undervalue me you under
appreciate we've under underappreciate
me we've had this conversation five or
six times then it's their
fault because they had all the
information but again it's it's really
funny how many young kids would they
they would rather quit than have a
difficult conversation or they'd rather
break up than have a difficult
conversation or Worse they'd rather go
someone than break up with
them because it's really uncomfortable
to have a fight and a breakup and call
each other
names it's much easier to just turn off
all the social media un unfollow
everywhere I know we've been dating for
six months but I'm just going to now
ignore every text ignore all your calls
and think about it from the we talk
about
service think about the service or
disservice we do to the other person for
their their point of
view it's like you got an a car accident
it's like you were just killed it's like
you just disappeared off the planet that
is
trauma because you're uncomfortable to
have an uncomfortable conversation you
would do that to so another person so
service goes both
ways which is I will make myself
uncomfortable and have a difficult
conversation even if I bumble it and
screw it up and it ends up being a
screaming match
because that is a better option than
traumatizing a person where they have to
believe that I've first of all that I've
died because they can't get a hold of me
in the panic and then when they realize
I'm alive because they see me on
Instagram that now I've destroyed their
self-confidence how dare somebody do
that to another human being because
you're just a little uncomfortable of
having an uncomfortable conversation
where we can help is we can teach people
how to have uncomfortable conversations
that is a skill
set we don't teach leaders how to have
uncomfortable conversations we don't
teach students how to have uncomfortable
conversations we don't teach you know we
can teach these things all over the
place and I think it's I think it's a
big gaping hole in curriculum we teach
you know maths and we teach English but
we don't teach social interaction we
don't teach listening we don't we don't
teach how to have uncomfortable
conversations we don't teach how to give
and receive feedback you know now you
tell me which is going to be more
valuable for the rest of your life how
to have a difficult conversation or
trigonometry
yeah and shouldn't we be you know isn't
this shouldn't we be preparing people
for
life I had a few words to say about one
of my sponsors on this podcast as the
seasons have begun to change so has my
diet and um right now I'm just going to
be completely honest with you I'm
starting to think a lot about slimming
down a little bit because over the last
couple of probably the last four or five
months my diet has been pretty bad um
and it started to show a little bit
really over the last two months I go to
the gym about 18 % of the time so I
track it with 10 of my friends in a
WhatsApp group in this tracker online
that we all use together we call it
Fitness blockchain and I'm currently at
81% um so 81% of the days I've done a
workout in the last 150 days right so
I'm going to the gym about six times a
week that's been a little bit impacted
by the DI live tour but I'm trying to
stick to it and so one of the things I'm
doing now to reduce my calorie intake
and trying to get back to being
nutritionally complete in all I eat is
I'm having the hule protein shake thank
you hu for making a product that I
actually like The Salted Caramel is my
favorite I've got the banana one here
which is the one my girlfriend likes but
for me salted caramel is the one on that
point of that new generation in the
workplace and how they're they're
exhibiting traits of being a little bit
more cowardly in terms of having those
difficult conversations you made a video
about Millennials in the workplace that
did probably hundreds of millions of
views I remember seeing on Facebook
maybe 5 years ago
and it just I think it had 50 million
views on that one video but across
YouTube it's got tens of millions of
views on many many different videos um
but I'm thinking now about that new
generation that you've described that
younger generation that genz generation
that are emerging into the like postco
world what is the workplace for them
what how do I as a leader make sure that
if I'm hiring jenzy and I've got a
couple even in this room that work in my
company what have we got to know about
them and do to make sure that they
Thrive stay motivated and achieve their
goals
this is my own
bias I don't like the conversation of
strengths and
weaknesses um you know it's the famous
question you know in an interview what's
your biggest weakness well I'm a
perfectionist you know uh I don't like
the conversations of strengths and
weaknesses because um strengths often
have
liability I'm really confident okay in
the wrong context you're arrogant right
but weaknesses also have Silver Linings
so for me I'm chronically disorganized
I'm terrible right every system app I've
works for like a week and then I'm back
to being
disorganized is that a good thing or a
bad thing now for years I used to beat
myself up for it and say it's a bad
thing it's it's a terrible weakness but
the reality is it's context so I was at
this as a young entrepreneur I was at
this networking event and I met this guy
who's like really impressed with what I
had to say with my pitch and he's like
Simon we have to do work together here's
my business card call me let's do this
and I lost the business card basically
as soon as he gave it to me so anybody
who was organized would be sending a
text from the taxi or at least sending
an email the next day not Yahoo over
here I lost the business card there was
no way for me to find out what this
important piece of business would have
led to because I lost the card two weeks
later I found the business card at the
bottom of a briefcase so I emailed him
and said hey remember we met two weeks
ago you know I'd love to reconnect and
see if we can work together still he
wanted to work with me more because he
thought I was
busy so strength or weakness the answer
is it depends now in general yes it is a
weakness it's a liability and it causes
me great stress but not always is the
point and so yes it's important for us
to understand our
characteristics that we exhibit of which
some of them in the in certain context
are huge strength and some of the the
exact same characteristics in the rung
context are huge weaknesses right so
it's very it's we have to be very
careful when we label people or
Generations as being strong or weak
because the answer is it
depends okay so that's the preface so
when we talk about this Young
Generation the the genz generation they
exhibit many of the same character of
six is the previous generation but
they're quite different in the sense
that they're very
activist right so for example in the
1950s and 60s people hated their jobs
back then too they just went to work
every day and just suffered in Silence
You Know by the time you get to the '
80s and 90s people hated their jobs but
then they'd at least start talking
around about it around the office saying
you know this this job kind of sucks a
little bit you know and then by the time
you get sort of the 2000s people start
speaking up to their bosses saying I
think we should make it better to work
here you know and now you're in this
young generation and they're just like
they're like standing up and quitting
and like and I love it right and and and
they organize they're much more you know
the previous generation would like
hashtag tweet my discontent as I'm
sitting in my Uber on my way to brunch
you know but this young generation gets
out and organizes and comes together
plus or minus it depends sometimes it's
a huge strength the fact that they have
that kind of energy but sometimes as
we've talked about as well they also
have the energy to quit instead of
having an uncomfortable conversation so
strength or weakness it depends and so I
think the way we have to approach all of
these things is with empathy which is
instead of uh uh deciding if it's a
strength or weakness to try and
understand where it comes from because I
can say this generation is irresponsible
and will quit before they ask for a
raise or I can say
why is it that they're quitting before
they get a when they just need a raise
what's Miss what's what's what happened
between a and b in that thought in those
two actions you know and I'm like oh
they just missed the skill set oh we can
totally figure that one out that one's
an easy fix so I'm not labeling a whole
person or a whole generation I'm rather
recognizing that there's gaps of uh
skills which we all have so when you ask
me about any of the generations and they
all have strengths and they all have
liabilities and depending on the time
frame and the context sometime sometimes
those strengths also become
old-fashioned no longer necessary you
know they can still cause frustration
they can still cause confusion you know
we're still looking through them at our
through our own prisms of our own
generation I've definitely caught myself
doing it you know I do do it my goodness
we never did that when we were kids you
know when I was their age I'm actually
saying that
now but um I think the the the
trial the the the the test is the
practice of empathy which is another
skill that we can teach that's missing
how is this the the co experiment on the
workforce and the workplace so how like
Business Leaders or business owners need
to adjust in order to make sure we
don't lose people and become an
uncompelling unattractive place to work
in this postco era and also on the point
you talked about earlier about the
importance of like we're social animals
and we need that social connection and
we're being kind of we're optimizing out
of our Lives it feels to me like this
remote working thing has has exacerbated
the issue because we're you know for for
young people you know I think that the
office is one of the few institutions we
have left where we are in person we no
longer get dating we do that on apps
food we don't go to restaurants anymore
we just order Uber Eats and our work
they're telling us is going to be done
from Zoom I'm like what do we have left
yeah lonely we going going to be lonely
and it's not a coincidence that we see
Rising rates of depression anxiety
suicide you know especially in younger
Generations so you know it's not causal
but it's there's definitely a
correlation you know it reminds me of
when um and I'm old enough for this some
of your listeners are not but I remember
when the internet showed
up and e-commerce
started and I remember some of the
people who are really into the tech
running around thinking this is the
death of bricks and mortars there will
never be stores
again and now Amazon opens stores and
Rent the Runway open open stores and
turns out it's the extremes are not
great places you know it's not the death
it's live alongside they become
different animals they become different
reasons we go to shops not to get the
best deal you go to you go to you go to
websites to get the best deal you go to
shops because it's fun you go to shops
to try stuff on you go to shops because
it's an activity because we our hunter
gatherer instincts we like foraging and
looking for things it's
entertainment we enjoy the service
aspect you know it's with our friends
sometimes it's not about the shops at
all it's just a a place something to do
with our friends play plays a different
role and the smart retailers know
that and so when we talk about work it's
the same it's the death of the corporate
headquarters it's the death of the
office I'm like H is it though you know
the reality is this's going to be
somewhere in the middle and I think one
thing with all the predictions about
what the future of work looks like I
think one thing we can be absolutely
sure of is there'll be more flexibility
where you know where it used to be hey
boss can I take off next Friday can I
work from home next Friday I have to
stay home for whatever right becomes
emailing in the morning saying I'm
working from home today and everybody's
just fine with it you know introverts
liking work working from home extroverts
like working at the office but at the
same time sometimes extroverts should
stay home because they can get more work
done and sometimes introverts need to
come to the office because they need to
connect and and and we want you to be a
part of the culture and and so I don't
think you know making any predictions
about what it will look like I think is
a little foolish at this time we know
it'll be some sort of amalgamation we
know it'll be more flexible and probably
every office will be slightly different
and it'll fit whatever their culture is
and I think the office environment will
become one of the selling selling things
which is if somebody really hates this
office environment they'll find another
company where they like the office
environment but I think what's really
interesting about the great resignation
what's being talked about less
and the great resignation is sort of the
reasons for it some people talk about
the government checks that we've gotten
that runs out so that's not the main
reason for it people talk about uh how
people are quitting to follow their
dreams you know I've always wanted to be
an actor or a writer great and that is
definitely a percentage and I and I love
that but that's not those numbers aren't
big enough I think what I think is more
interesting is that the great
resignation is an indictment under
Decades of substandard corporate culture
and poor
leadership where and because it's a big
deal that we're seeing people especially
at at um Frontline level jobs which um
where leadership used to say of them
they should just be happy to have a job
right um that that those people are
quitting without new jobs necessarily is
a big
deal um and they're definitely not all
just following their dreams I think it
is because in the past
you know when you ask those people how's
work and they'd be like it's fine is it
good no it's it's fine it's a job it's
fine well why don't you quit because the
unknown was way scarier than fine and so
they may do with fine and Leadership
took advantage a lot of corporate
managers took advantage of the fact that
they could get away with fine we could
do the minimum because they're not going
to leave they they're lucky to have a
job and what are they going to go out
there and the the great unknown fine is
fine and then covid happened and a lot
of people were laid off a lot of people
lost their jobs a lot of people were
furloughed some people kept their jobs
but just lived in
fear and we all kind of made it out okay
we ate we had food you know um most
people made it
okay uh even if it was difficult they
made it through and so all of a sudden
the great unknown a lot less scary
and so when you're offering me fine I
choose unknown that's a better option in
fact not only do I choose unknown I'm
going to wait until you fix fine and I
don't think enough companies are
recognizing that the great resignation
is an indictment that the great
resignation is a a wag of the finger
that you have been getting away with
substandard culture and poor leadership
for too long and you better fix your
stuff and I think the companies that
will have the huge advantages is not not
the comp the companies that get the
balance of iners or or or or uh or
online work right I don't think that's
what makes it I think the companies that
get the huge Advantage moving forwards
are the ones that teach leadership to
their leaders that teach these human
skills that we've been talking about
that create a corporate environment and
a and a corporate culture that I want to
go to every day and I actually form good
strong bonds with my new tribe with the
people I go to work with and I'm willing
to sacrifice and not get everything
exactly how I want it but because I'd
rather be here and serve these wonderful
group of people those are the companies
that will have the huge advantage of the
next decades or two one of the things
that I saw in that postco period was in
my company in particular was are one of
the things that I believe and from our
our research at the time I'm no longer
with this company so I can kind of talk
about it um with a bit more honesty in
our in our questionnaires we would see
that a lot of the reason why people love
to come and work there was because of
the the company culture right we had
done we had gone to extreme lengths we
had like five people that were just in
charge of Happiness called the happiness
team we paid for everyone's mental
health therapy it was a very it was the
it was in terms of flexibility what the
world is like now where you can decide
for yourself when you work and then when
covid came around we were like known for
that in the UK like the BBC denner P say
this the best place to work when Co came
around it smashed our USP because it and
this is why I almost viewed it as a
leveler because now everyone was working
from their laptop at home in their box
of shorts so now what I think I I saw
was our employees were going to some
degree I can work at home in my box of
shorts for this company or I can work
home in my box of shorts for this
company where they'll pay me more double
yeah and and that shift was and it was
terrifying for us because that's when we
started to see people leaving because
they would go oh well this company will
give me 30% more and I'm still going to
be doing my to-do list at home on my own
so why don't I move now is there truth
to that in your view yeah of course
because you misook um trappings for
culture right right now no those things
are good let's not diminish the value of
those things but this this is a
beautiful full circle we're going in
from the very beginning of our
conversation which is to what end to
what end like what are we doing this in
service to what's the bigger thing that
was missing and that was missing 100%
And that's that's that's where cultures
become magic they're
fun like you know the number of
companies you and I have both visited
that have you know flat screens
everywhere amazing design free lunch sh
you know we had a slide yeah yeah you
have a slide like cool you know now is
somebody going to turn down a better
paying job to keep that no you know but
if you give them opportunity to
contribute to something bigger
themselves would they turn down a better
paying job now yes right and so I think
and it's probably driven by the
whole.com tech
culture um but it's it's it's you know
because tech companies largely are that
sort of ridiculous bright color slides
and everything office you know which is
fun don't get me wrong it's fun um but
that that's not that's not cause that's
not purpose uh and great cultures are
are are organized to advance something
bigger than themselves they're not just
fun places to work do you know the thing
I think we did wrong is I think we asked
people what they wanted yeah so they
said things like a bar yeah a basketball
hoop whereas as you've as you're clearly
alluding to here you can't ask people
for culture like in that regard you
can't ask people for to all name the the
collective cause because they'll all say
different things correct you have to you
have to offer them a cause to join and
that's one of the reasons they join the
companies because they believe in the
cause not just because it's a a job I
want to do um you know Henry Ford
famously said if I asked people what
they wanted they would have set a faster
horse you know this is where folks like
Steve Jobs who's given too much credit
for being able to predict what people
want is just totally not true it's he
had a cause and he simply made products
that brought that cause to life which is
to give people the power to stand up to
big
brother that's it and we developed
technology to empower
individuals that's it you know and so
those who came to work there they
recognized that they were a part of a
revolution the computer Revolution they
constantly talked about it as the
Revolution and they invented iTunes
which more than the iPod revolutionized
the music industry turned it from an
album culture to a song culture
let us make music portable you know um
and that was the music they refer to as
the Music
Revolution um
and and you carried a banner you know
and you sacrificed for it was it a great
place to work it was a hard place to
work but it was worth it and that's the
question are the sacrifices worth it and
sometimes we we hide the pain or the
difficulties or the strains or the
stresses with all the silly fun stuff
which is a salve let's be honest I mean
it does work to some degree but not all
stress is bad you know you know I I I
joke you know often you know when we
work hard for something we love it's
called passion we work hard for
something we don't love it's called
stress now in both cases you're working
hard you know what's the differ what's
the difference between you know doing
something you love and you work late
hours and you sacrifice your
relationships and you sacrifice your
family but you look at and say uh it was
hard but it was worth it you know versus
losing all those things and all you do
is get a Lamborghini at the end you know
it's like was it worth it I'm like H not
so sure I do that again you
know um and so I think that's what
that's what purpose and cause provide us
is they give us a reason for the
sacrifice that's what love gives us it
gives us the reason for the sacrifice
that's what children do they give us the
reason for the sacrifice your life will
profoundly change when you have a child
is it worth it yes is it easy no every
person I've ever talked to who has
children say it's the most difficult
thing they've ever done and if you ask
them if it's worth it they all say yes
that doesn't go together you
know when I think about even this
podcast and setting purposeful goals for
what we're doing here we definitely fell
in the Trap of being like I think a lot
of people do you get consumed in the
charts oh my God we're number one right
for now for now yeah and then you
scratch your head and go well then what
next what's say What's a more worthy
more purposeful goal for us to have as a
team when we're building something like
this podcast because it's so easy to get
you know caught up in we want be number
one in the charts and true and that does
drive you to some extent it seems to be
a a reason whether it's a an vapid one
or whatever but what is a better more
worthy purposeful goal to set okay so
let's take a step back uhoh going to
interrogate me no what was the reason
you did episode
one um
plentiful going to give you all of them
I'm very honest as well thought
podcasting as a medium would be a big
opportunity I thought that was would be
a really effective medium of
communication when that's growing
opportunity for what to grow my personal
brand okay I'm going to give you all of
the reasons even the selfish ones okay
number two I find it a thrill and deeply
compelling and liberating for others to
talk about things and be honest in a way
that most people aren't usually honest
so in the first episode I talk about
things like masturbation
and mental health problems as a CEO
difficulties with my family all of those
things I find it liberating for myself
but I know for others that listened to
it when especially when we got the um
started to get the feedback it was
equally liberating for them and then
when you so episode one is a little
episode one was more of an experiment
but as you episode yeah episode two or
whatever then it was the feedback so I
was doing a lot of other things that
were doing bigger views my Facebook
videos would get 10 million each 10
million views each but the feedback I
was getting from the thousand people
that were listening to this was deep it
was profound and it was intense and they
said things like they said things like I
can relate to that um that's really
helped me solve this problem I've had
you've made me a big one we get is
you've made me feel like I'm not alone
MH and then going if I go to the last
like you know if I go to more recent
times I quit when I left my job and I
was now no longer needed to do anything
for money anymore in my life when I took
stock of because there was about a sixth
month or one year Gap in this podcast
which is when I was leaving my job and I
took stock of life and thought about the
things I want to do for the rest of my
life and this was one of the things that
seemed to touch all bases it was
enjoyable for myself I get to sit and
learn from people like yourself it feels
like as you said it's like a service to
others a really profound one probably
the best most the greatest service like
I feel like I can do to the external
world and it's it's money generating but
to be honest if it makes a profit I just
spend it on the podcast so uh yeah and
that's where that's kind of my my thesis
so okay so let's back up a second I'm
just taking on your your own words I'm
not adding anything here would you
rather do this to be number one to grow
your own brand or would you rather grow
this would you rather do this to tell
the truth so it helps others tell the
truth to themselves and to
others number two obviously yeah and so
your podcast absolutely has purpose and
so when you start recognizing that we do
this we do this to tell the truth so
that others can be honest with
themselves and
others in a way that they struggle to
find anywhere
else and if we're number one for a
period of time amazing but if we're
number two we'll still do it and with
number four we'll still do it if we're
another 10 we'll still do it because
there's a reason to do this that's
bigger now if the numbers are steadily
declining and no one's
listening then maybe we're doing
something wrong to spread our message
maybe we've gone off base maybe we're
maybe we're not telling the truth like
we used to we need to reevaluate if
we're still fulfilling our purpose or
maybe the manner or medium that we're
using is no longer relevant so you know
because things change in time too so
that's why the metrics do matter but the
absolute of the metrics don't matter the
trend of the metrics
matter um and so you do have purpose for
this and
that means you have to practice that
kind of Truth telling with your team who
work on this podcast because you have to
live when the microphone is off the same
way you live when the microphone is on
and that starts to have a profound
impact on you and your team so if that
becomes the purpose rather than being
number one maybe it gives people a
reason to stick around here
because they believe in it it's
benefited them is there a role for those
arbitrary goals is that do are they
useful to say we want to be number one
in the United States is that a useful
goal to set ourselves um alongside the
sense of purpose can they coexist they
can coexist as long as you're as long as
you recognize the reason right because
if you become too obsessed with the goal
at the sacrifice of the cause like there
is a hierarchy the cause comes first
because the goal comes first you can
look I know authors who and I'm sure you
know I'm sure there's ways to do it in
podcast as well but like I know authors
who are number one Amazon bestsellers
well that's because you can game the you
can game the algorithm you just have all
your friends buy a book on the same hour
because it's calculated hourly and
congratulations you can be a number one
Amazon bestseller with the worst book in
the world it exists you can do it I I've
seen it there are companies that you can
buy a New York Times bestseller like
they know how to game The New York Times
algorithm and they buy books across the
country basically you buy the books and
they buy them on your behalf so and if
and I've had an opportunity to look at
the Publishers like look at the
Publishers computers where you can see
any book we can track any book book
sales and they've showed me they showed
me how the trend works that you can tell
who gain the system and there are some
very famous authors that I will not
mention on this podcast who I know for a
fact because I looked at the the that
they brag about how they're New York
Times bestsellers well it's because they
paid for it they bought all those books
themselves right you can game all these
systems and if you're too obsessed with
the number because you think the number
is what gives you credibility then it
goes back to ethical fading again then
the pressure becomes overwhelming and
you start doing things that have nothing
to do with the podcast or the cause and
only have to do with advancing the
number so you can go around telling
people you got the number right great
good for you you know and you know I
don't it's not how I choose to build my
business or live my life you know but I
think what's more fun is to be surprised
which is is it okay to be driven to be
number one as long as you're doing it
second and the p and the and the the
cause comes first sure if that's your
thing
um but just be prepared to answer what
what next you know because you you can't
be number one forever that's I love it
when companies say I'm number one or
I've got the number one podcast and you
heard I always say for now like for now
like that stuff doesn't last even if
it's 10 years it still won't last right
quick one we bring in eight people a
month to watch these conversations live
here in the studio when we're here in
the UK and when we're in La if you want
to be one of those people all you've got
to do is hit subscribe what do you you
working on at the moment Simon because
you're you're known for writing amazing
books and delivering amazing content
what are you working on what's what's
compelling you at the moment what's your
why well my why is to inspire people to
do the things that Inspire them so to
each of us so that each of us can change
our world for the better that is the the
foundation of everything that I do and
and that's the test through which I run
everything that I will do like does this
inspire people to affect some sort of
change or
perspective um
why does that matter to
you it's not that it matters to me it's
that's who I am it's like that's core to
my being it's like you're wise Court to
your being my wise cord of my being
that's my personality it's what wakes me
up every day it's what fulfills me it's
what fills me as well so and then I have
my cause my just cause which is you know
my why is where I come from my cause is
where I'm going and my cause is to
create a world in which the vast
majority of people wake up every single
morning Inspire to go to work feel safe
wherever they are and end the day
fulfilled by the work that they do you
know that if you're going to put stress
into something that you get to enjoy the
fruits of your own labor you know
building something and looking at it and
say I I helped build that you know
that's a beautiful thing and so any work
that I do is always to advance that
cause so there's a bunch of things that
I'm doing some of which will work and
some of which will fail um I started a
my own imprint with penguin Random House
oh really called optimism press amazing
where I'm looking for the people who are
uh ideas that I believe need to be
shared that help move uh the needle and
Advance towards that cause um and so
we've published four books so far we
have two coming on the way which is
really exciting uh how to make a plant
love you uh trust first um um the power
of giving away power and our newest one
is called partnering um and they all
have a point of view about how to move
or new ideas about how to advance this
closer towards this world that I imagine
so um and old different takes on it
which is really fun um so I have the
imprint um I'm working behind the scenes
on police reform uh which has been
intense and fascinating and a steep
education also looking um I'm I'm doing
some work to try and sort of figure out
how to drive Innovation inside large
bureaucracies um so I'm trying to figure
out I'm working behind the scenes trying
to work with some really forward minded
uh forward- minded really um infinite
minded young CEOs or at least younger
companies to help them figure out how to
build infinite minded companies now it
doesn't matter if they sell it doesn't
matter if they have a liquidity event
but they're not driven by the sale
they're not driven by the liquidity
event they're driven to build a company
that can Outlast them and they're driven
to build cultures that can withstand the
test of time and the loss of every
single employee you know that you could
have an entire New Generation come in
and the company will survive um and so I
really want to I'm I'm I'm looking for
those companies that I think are worth
supporting and helping them build a new
kind of company for the Next Generation
because I think the way we've been doing
it for the past 30 40 years has been
really not helpful to the economy and to
the world and I think that we have to
find new ways to do it in other words
I'm putting my money where my mouth is
I'm all the books that I've written
about these things I'm going to try and
get under the hood and try and help
these companies do it you're Brilliance
you know I saw it in the list of all the
things you're doing you're brilliant but
I also see it in all the work you've
created I see it in the content you put
out the your Brilliance is very obvious
I sat here with the the guy that trained
Michael Jordan for 15 years and then he
trained Kobe afterwards and he said that
with our Brilliance often comes what he
refers to as like our dark side which is
the things we struggle with and those
and he says they there tends to be a
relationship between our Brilliance and
our struggle or our dark side are you
aware of what your dark side is in terms
of the cost of your
Brilliance well I think
um first of all I don't think I'm
brilliant I know that sounds sort of
like falsely humble but I really don't
think of myself that way I genuinely
think of myself as an idiot and and I'm
not being glib at all I I don't really
understand very complex things um and I
have pretty bad ADHD and so everybody
thinks I'm I'm extremely well read and
the reality is I've written more books
than I've read and
and I just I love the idea of reading I
I don't I can't read I don't read I
learn by listening and talking and so uh
um and so very complex things my brain
doesn't work that way and so I I've
learned to ask lots and lots and lots of
questions so that something can be
simplified to the level that I can
understand it and if it's simple and I
can understand it that means I can
repeat it and so my books are my ability
to understand complex things by asking
other people lots and lots and lots of
questions so I can simplify it enough so
that other people can understand these
complex things too talking about biology
and anthropology of you know all kinds
of you know things that yes I know that
I've oversimplified them I'm fully aware
you know like people who critic you know
criticize me like this is Pup Culture
you know pup science I know that but if
I make it it's full complexity all I've
done done is written a textbook well
that's not helpful is it so I don't
think of myself in the way that you
receive my work you know and I think
that maybe the impact of my work may be
perceived as genius but let us not
confuse that the impact of the work that
may be perceived as genius doesn't make
the person who produced it a genius
right so I I reject I'm flattered by but
reject the the the compliment even
though it's a gift I'm supposed to
accept a gift yeah yeah yeah um uh take
your gift back it has no use here um so
when you ask me like what's the balance
of genius genius being this thing off
the scale all the way far away over
there well if I'm don't think of myself
or even live my life that way then the
balance of something is probably a
little closer to the middle so do I have
darkness of course I have Darkness you
know uh do I find that Darkness
absolutely fascinating I do what is it
uh the I mean a lot of my
insecurities uh that I'm that I've dealt
with some of like I've it I don't think
I've ever actually said out loud on a
podcast like this I might have mentioned
it a couple times scarily like people
would always ask me
um so Simon what books are you reading
or what books are in your bedside table
well I can answer that question because
I have a pile of about five or six books
on my bedside table and I've read none
of them but they've been sitting there
for like two years I've read some of two
of them I honestly don't remember the
last book I finished other than my own
because I had to read it for the book on
tape you know for the audio book um and
so I would always answer that question I
would name one of the books or I just
name one of my perennial favorites like
oh man search for meaning you know know
and only now I'm sort of getting
comfortable with the idea of saying out
loud I don't read books and not because
I don't like them it's because I
struggle to um the good news is I
learned how to learn without them I wish
I could read because there's so much
good stuff in them and I know that they
go into level of depth that I really
want to understand but there you go and
I think that goes to the honesty thing
you know I'm realizing that me trying to
answer the question and avoid
embarrassment um is valuable for people
who like to read books but for the
people who struggle to read books I just
made them feel worse you know and
somebody pointed that out to me it's
like every time I lied about I never
lied they said What books you reading
said well this is on my bedside table um
or I believe this book is important you
know or I just picked up this new book
which would all be true I just didn't
read them um that there's a group of
people who also struggle to read for
whatever dyslexia or add or whatever it
is and and I'm I'm living proof that you
can do okay without it now that doesn't
mean you can't learn but you got to find
the hack there's a couple books I
finished um I finished I finished The Da
Vinci Code
okay it's so good and it's you know why
because it's written with really really
really short chapters so read like three
pages that's I'm the person who like
always looks Pages ahead to see how much
I have to go and if it's like 50 pages
I'm like G yeah yeah yeah how does that
change how you write though if you if
you're not a yourself when you ironic
isn't it yeah that I yeah it's ironic
that I ended up writing books writing is
a is a it's different um because if it's
really fun when I'm editing because if
I'm boring myself I just cut that whole
section and so the books have my sense
of humor in them like there's little
jokes in there because it makes me
giggle and I write about the things that
I think are really interesting and I
tell the stories that make me interested
and and I can make myself with some of
those stories in the book and I can give
myself Goosebumps with some of the
stories in that book and if I'm doing it
for myself it's probably working for
others too you know um but uh I I do
love ideas and I love dissecting ideas
and understanding ideas and I really
love understanding why things work I am
a little kid at heart you know I want to
know why um not as a noun as I
popularized it with start with why but
as a question like why is it that way
I'm really I love that question it is it
is a little kid question you know for
some reason as adults we stop asking and
started just blindly accepting and that
doesn't mean I have to be rebellious in
the question it's not it's not an
accusation like why are you doing it
that way it's genuine curiosity like why
does it work that way um and I love that
and when I discover things that
are Illuminating to me and I'm able to
explain them to my friends my friends
can understand these things and the joy
I see in people's faces and when they
when I challenge their perspective
then the the fun is to share it well I'm
going to give you your the gift back of
Brilliance thank you the reason why I
think I do use the word Brilliance is
because you meet people sometimes that
have one of the three things I believe
you used the word genius oh did I use
gen
genius um you meet people sometimes who
have like one of the what I consider to
be the Holy Trinity of like affecting
change as a as an orator sometimes they
have wisdom sometimes they're like good
storytellers and then some sometimes
they they have the delivery but you
rarely meet people that have all three
your delivery in terms of when you
deliver ideas the way you kind like
punctuate sentences and the tone of it
keeps people incredibly engaged and I
think you gave me the root cause of that
when you said you had ADHD and you're
you're a bad reader because you find it
hard to hold um you find it hard for
other things to hold your attention so
you're very good at holding the
attention of someone else listening and
then the securest way in which you
deliver a point as well makes incredibly
engaging from a storytelling perspective
and then the wisdom or the simple idea
that underpins it that we can understand
cuz I've sat here before and honestly
we've deleted podcasts because someone
comes in they're a genius mathematician
yeah but when you ask them to make that
complex math
idea relevant and resonant in my own
life it's impossible we we we deleted
the episode because they're too smart to
like to to simplify for sure um but you
you're able to do that that's why your
books are so important and that's why
all the content you put out online and
on your YouTube channels and Instagram
is so necessary we have a closing
tradition on this podcast where
the last guest asks a question for the
next guest oh cool so they wrote it in
this diary they don't know who they're
writing it for I love that and when you
write your question you also won't know
who you're writing it for but it's our
way of all the guests talking to each
other oh that's great in a long linear
sequence do I get to know who's asking
you don't I don't okay what
was the happiest moment of your life so
far the happiest I I literally can't
answer the question it's for me it's my
happiness doesn't exist in the past it's
I've done many things that made me happy
but I'm much more interested in what's
going to happen
next I'm probably better at answering
the question what's the happiest thing
you're going to
do um I I'm I'm actually drawing a blank
what is the happiest thing you're going
to do
um I walked into that one didn't
I um the happiest thing I'm going to do
is actually solve the problems and or at
least contribute to the solution of some
of those problems that we talked about
like I will be very happy when I help
when I can contribute to police reform
in this country I will be very happy
when I can figure out better
systems to help reinvent what modern
business looks like and reject
everything that Jack Welch built you
know and
disrupt sharehold to Supremacy and the
way that we build companies now I will
be very happy to demonstrate a momentum
towards an entirely different direction
um I will be very
happy um if all of the sum of my work
makes it feel like I have moved the
needle somewhat closer though not final
towards that Vision I talked about of an
inspired safe and fulfilled World
ironically those sound like infinite
games many of them yeah I don't believe
I I mean all of the things that will
make make me happy will be incomplete I
I I don't expect them to be complete
what will bring me joy it like when when
when you if let me rephrase the question
for
myself which is how will you know you
lived a life worth living it's kind of
the same question
right and the answer will be is because
other people will pick up where I left
off and continue without me that I was
clear enough my cause was compelling
enough and the tools that I left were
sharp enough that other figured out how
to not only use them but make them
better and reinvent new ones I I will
have lived a life worth living if I can
look back and say it will keep going
without me because it doesn't need me
and that's the
goal Simon thank you it's a a huge honor
and a pleasure and it's very clear why
you were probably the most requested
guest on this this podcast um from our
from our viewers and you've definitely
given much more than um I could have
ever hoped for in terms of your
generosity and wisdom to me but also to
our listeners in this conversation so
thank you so much for your generosity
Simon thank you it's it's been a joy um
and you it's one of the best podcasts
I've ever done I mean you are so
engaging and and driven your cause comes
out clear which is you are so driven by
the truth you are so compelled by the
truth that anybody sitting here really
wants to offer only truth um uh and uh
it's a Cause worth fighting for
thank you I will accept the
gift we are all looking for ways to live
a little bit more sustainably and to
make more conscious choices in our
day-to-day routines so when a brand like
my energy who I've spoken about before
offered to sponsor this podcast I felt
like and I knew deep down inside that I
had to help them share their mission to
create an even Greener World it feels
like there's not much more fulfilling
than that and their products provide an
easy and cost-effective way to make a
sustainable switch in your life and
they've got some existing new products
coming out that I can't wait to use
myself and I'll let you know as I use
those products how I get on so if you're
a my Energy customer at the moment let
me know your favorite products Down
Below in the comment section and if you
haven't checked them out yet go to my
energy.com and find out a lot more about
who they are and what they're doing if
you're one of those people that wants to
make a sustainable switch my energy.com
is the place for you
[Music]
oh